flu_got_me-a.txt

  15 March 10:48 UTC beginning.

So, the flu got me.

In 2013, at the New Year, I'd been self-isolating against
contracting flu virus, as I often had done at that time of
the winter.

The social circles I travel in (in warmer weather) tend to
be flu carriers.  I had not yet developed the habit of seeking
a flu vaccine at the beginning of the flu season (generally,
around the end of October).

Right around the first of January, 2014, I get food delivered
to my door - a regional company that offers full grocery
delivery service, with online shopping.

Two days later I'm laying face down on my bed, trying not to
move; trying to stay asleep .. for the following 48 hours.
Intense chest pain, which (much later, in retrospect) turns
out to be some form of pericarditis.

That affects the pericardium, which is kind of a separate organ
from the heart, itself, but surrounds it.

After the 48 hours of wondering if I was going to die in my
sleep; wondering why I wasn't seeking medical help, I get just
enough better to get a good amount of water in me, maybe a
little bite, and back to bed, but not quite so awful.


I ran a fever for a good ten days, which is very long for me;
cannot remember a fever like this one, since childhood (and
I've had some fairly bad influenza symptoms in the past decade
or so).

I tracked the ibuprofen and the acetaminophen I was dosing with
(both, alternating, as I remember it) and so I had that much to
report semi-accurately when I was finally seen (in June!)

Yeah, I waited that long to seek help.

January came and went; first with the fever, and then with a really
difficult time breathing well.  I don't remember that much about
it; I do remember doing my usual walk around the neighborhood, maybe
3/4 mile (I don't know) .. a walk I wouldn't even consider, on an
athletic basis, to be the least wanting to prep for, or to put
off until I was feeling exceptionally well, when I was (formerly)
in my usual state of health (really pretty good overall).

It was cold outdoors in late January and early February, and it felt
like I had a basketball inside me, taking up all the space where the
lower half of my lungs were supposed to expand into.

That was the one time I remember trying to walk around the neighborhood;
I may've tried it a few times.

Ultimately (here's the wrong thing) I decided I had emphysema.  Now
they call that COPD, or at least the two were/are similar ideas.

I look it up online (still wrong) and learn that COPD spectrum type
stuff (there's your technical limit of the jargon, almost, showing
how little I know from rote, on this) .. I look it up and it says
that the condition is sensitive to sodium intake, and suggests lowering
sodium intake to .. feel better.

So I try that and quickly realize that weight gain was mapping pretty
consistently to higher daily sodium intake.

I make real effort to limit sodium (I didn't have the resources or
skills to reduce it entirely, but I was now in a range where my system
was responding to the reduction).

But my weight is still going up.  And up.  And my abdomen continues
to get larger.

I can feel it; I know what it is; I'm retaining fluid.

I don't remember how much nuance there was to it, but I convinced
myself I needed the drug that would release the extra fluid (I was
later put on that exact drug; along an odd path, I did find some
relief through self-diagnosis, which means I got lucky that the
relief was possible by a very simple thing: reduce sodium intake).

Now of course it wasn't enough, and I was still gaining weight, but
more slowly than before.

I was still laboring under an entirely false self-diagnosis.



IN JUNE I finally reach my personal limit with this.  I figured it
was time to just change everything about my thinking, with the small
steps I could take in that one moment to begin the changes.

So I ask for the help; it was a Friday, and my friend brings me to
the doctor's office (which doesn't really accept walk-ins) and the
woman there took one look at me and said to my friend (a woman) that
if it were her husband, she'd immediately bring him to the Emergency
Department.

That got both of our attention.

And that's exactly what we did.


THEY KEPT me for eleven days; the first evening it was not clear, in
the Emergency Department of the nearby hospital, if they were going to
release me or what.

They'd given me the drug I mentioned, which is a loop diuretic and I
dropped quite a bit of the 35 lb water gain (I don't know how much I
dropped, maybe not very much, but a profound amount compared with just
prior).

They floated a few alternative diagnoses and decided to admit, and I
think by that time we all kind of winked at each other as I was borderline
not admissible.

Written up as CHF, I think.  Congestive heart failure.  Which is what it was.


Although this would not be known for almost sixteen months (from the first
day I got sick, that is) .. I had constrictive pericarditis, with a viral
etiology.  That means some virus I contracted was responsible for my
symptoms in early January of 2014, and that it did permanent harm to my
pericardium, which was (eventually) removed (ablated) by a surgeon.

I got the flu, and the outcome was I had to have heart surgery, to address
what the flu did to me.

Now I will live out my days believing I contracted 2009 H1N1 (a strain of
flu virus) in January of 2014, but of course there's no evidence, since I
waited six months to be seen.  All they're willing to say is it was of
a viral etiology (since constrictive pericarditis only has a few known
causes, and I wasn't at risk for the others .. the next most likely cause
after a virus, was radiation treatments to the chest area, which was not
the case at all).

 - - -

I guess that's about my story for the moment.  I lived in a different world,
for those sixteen months, and I'm not sure the retelling of it all quite
speaks to what I thought I wanted to say about this, this morning. ;)


I have intimate experience with contracting a virus that did something very
(very) unusual to me, compared with what it must have done to the carrier
(that driver, or perhaps the postman .. there were no other known contacts
for weeks before the onset of symptoms).

I mentioned just this to my doctor, when I presented to the E.R. who said
not to worry about contacting that driver, as the way this works, is that
I got an 'ordinary' virus that many others do fine with, but that I had a
bit of bad luck with it (it attacked the pericardium in some manner).

Which I think is probably my short point, here: somebody else gets that
virus, and it's nothing to write home about.  It tried pretty hard to end
all my days; my survival odds would be running out, right about now, had
there been no surgical intervention available (which is the case for almost
all .. or all .. other forms of CHF, and, I think, some forms of pericarditis;
not sure on that one).

The form of pericarditis that I had, they only do six surgeries a year,
they told me, to address it.  In a pretty big (and well-known) hospital.



WALKING UP a very shallow hill slope .. about a twelve foot rise over a
seventy feet run, say .. was completely exhausting for me, when I was so
sick.  Even after months of being on the correct pills (five different
kinds) and following all (okay, most or at least many) of the doctor's
directives, this was still the case.


END.
